hey everyone me again Laszlo Montgomery
coming to you irregularly whenever time
permits from the China history podcast
calm part 3 today of our Chinese Civil
War overview as we pick up where we left
off last time it has been said many
times by many historians that Mao and
the Communist leadership did not expect
to win the Civil War so fast if you
consider the moment both went out at
full bore to be January 1946 when
General George C Marshall left and no
one bothered to keep up good appearances
anymore
if that was where the war really started
then you could say the armies of the CCP
put the armies of the KMT away in less
than four years and beginning in January
1946 for the PLA that was a
come-from-behind victory - last time we
saw how in early 1947 Jung's generals
came out with their guns blazing the PLA
lost a lot of ground and was back on
their heels all over the north and in
Manchuria but at the same time China the
Communist China he was causing the NRA
all kinds of headaches in Shandong but
even he knows the battle is far from
being won then during the second half of
1947 and into 1948 mouths brilliant
summer autumn and winter offensives
sealed Zhang's fate in Manchuria the
battle for Manchuria was now just about
over mostly thanks to Lin Biao yeah we
all know what he's gonna do 24 years
later but for now he's a great hero I
also mentioned last time about these ccp
cadres these advanced men who fanned out
wherever there was a town or a village
these unsung heroes of the revolution
served tirelessly as the work teams who
at the risk of losing their life went
into these villages and explained who
they were and gave the whole spiel about
come time to eat the whole communism
thing and what was in it for the
peasants they were the sales and
marketing forces that softened up the
populace and made it easier
more often than not for when the PLA
came marching through trust me they
weren't always welcome
these cadres and volunteers were the
advance teams who got the locals
wherever they went on the side of the
PLA and therefore the Communists the
Nationalists had their chances many
times to win the hearts and minds of the
peasantry but as a general rule rather
than as the exception they squandered
all their chances over the years those
living in the China countryside had
learned from about the time a hun
ghalsuu till now not to put too much
faith in any outside forces to do
anything to better their harsh world
so in these work teams these communist
cadres would roll into town and start
pitching them the people in the Chinese
countryside were not an easy sell at all
but the situation in 1948 was so bad
many in the countryside felt what could
be worse than this and in this episode
in 1948 we're going to see how time and
again as the pla is battling it out
against the nationalist forces millions
of these peasants will be organized and
mobilized they'll be rallying behind the
PLA not firing any weapons but in
contributing every conceivable kind of
ancillary support the Nationalists
usually had to fend for themselves
and in fact often had to deal with a
hostile peasantry who were already on
the CCP side the core political leaders
who made up Mao's deal team at the
topmost level were Chang Hyun Lee Fujian
jonghwan Thien Gaughan and lean Fung
Chung Lin and Lee handled administrative
and economic matters Zhang wen Tian was
the main Soviet liaison Gao jiong who
will come to PRC historical prominence
in 1953 worked with Lin Bo and managing
the whole war effort in the northeast
aside from these political leaders the
real power center of the CCP resided in
the party's revolutionary military
committee this was the CMC of its day
these five leaders were Mao Judah Leo
Xiao Qi Joanne lie and Panda Hawaii Yong
Chun Kuen was a secretary
this was command central the Situation
Room they controlled the eight military
regions of China that they had set up
the shank got Ning and the gene chachi
we learned of last episode so 1947 March
the Communists were chased out of yen on
by the overwhelming forces led by KMT
general who Tong nan but Mao already had
a backup place in mind and that was
Jiang Jacko the city is also known by
its Mongol name of Calgon it was a very
interesting and strategic location it is
located right on the border with Beijing
inner mongolia and shenyang up writi
major crossroads mouth set up the
military headquarters in a place called
XI by Paul just to the northwest of sure
Chuang and south of Chiang Jaco this is
in Hebei province from that location
that place designated one of the five
most sacred locales of the revolution
Mao ran the three campaigns that we'll
look at today I mentioned them at the
close of the last episode these were the
ocean fly high and pingjin campaigns
that took place over a period of about
nine months in 1948 and into January of
1949 it was the outcome of these three
campaigns that gave Mao a lead that
there was no way to catch up to by the
time of the last battle of the pingjin
campaign on the last day of January on
the last year of the decade 1949 the
only thing left to do was mop up and it
will be from this town of XI pipe or
that Mao Zedong will march on Beijing
when his moments comes isn't past
dynasties any conquering Emperor knew he
had to get China proper first get
everything from su chuan de Heilong
Jiang first deal with Fujian Kwang soo
Kwang don't later and once she got all
that
control then you go after the West it's
gonna be a similar case also with the
Communists when Mao gave his great
pronouncement on the gate of heavenly
peace on 10 149 there was still plenty
of fighting going on and john kai-shek
was still on the mainland well the focus
of the liaoning shenyang or liao shun
campaign involved two cities primarily
remember when i told you last episode
after the siping campaign had ended that
spelled the end of the winter offensive
that saw mao emerged victorious in
Manchuria
well that wasn't entirely true while Mao
is the clear winner up there two very
important places were still not in PLA
hands yet these were the two largest
cities in Manchuria Shenyang capital of
Liaoning province and Changchun capital
of chi'lan and as I think I have
mentioned a couple times and I'll let
you know again at no extra charge it
also served as the capital of the Manchu
quote state that ran 13 years from 1932
to 1945 back in the day the only way to
get an army in and out of Shenyang and
then Changchun was via railroad and the
rail line that brought one north to
those cities ran through the city of
chinchou and it just so happened the NRA
had quite the military base there so
that's the backstory for the Battle of
Jean Joe that sort of kicks off the
Laotian campaign if Jean Jo could be
captured Mao knew that left the door
wide open to take Chang Shan and
Shenyang and besides this with Jin
strategic location it was also the
entryway into central China
the Shanghai Guan where the Great Wall
begins and then all the way to Tianjin
and into Beijing and the China heartland
so if the PLA could prevail in Jingzhou
it would also cut off any possible
escape route for the NRA that was now
holed up in Shenyang and Chang won it
was in the heartland
north of the eunsuh that mouths central
plains army had been plowing through
almost all of the NRA forces they
encountered this was the army discussed
in that tongue shall paying part to ch
sixty-four episode the army was led by
the legendary Leo Chong and of course
dung shall ping
it was the smashing success of this
campaign in 1947 that allowed Mao to
strike right into the heartland and hold
his position in the Tapia mountains
north of wool hunt where cannot who pay
an ant way sort of all come together as
Mao was launching his offensives in the
north
Leo bongs army marched in from the west
and combined with Chinese Army in the
East in Shandong to annihilate the NRA
forces they fought against and this
central China region had always from day
one venez KMT stronghold to have mouths
armies just bust their way in like they
did was shocking to gen while the summer
autumn and winter offensives were
causing one defeat after another for
Chang in the north he was also facing
disappointment south of there in Hebei
and Hebei so now thanks to Leo and dung
the Communists were now firmly
established in the da PM mountains in
China's central plain as well as in the
northeast by the summer of 1948 Jiang's
situation was starting to look more and
more hopeless Mao knew this too so he
looked at these campaigns he was
strategizing as the potential knockout
punches the work done in 1947 in early
1948 with the three offensives in the
north and in Manchuria as well as by
Changi and Shandong and yobbo Chong and
done with their central plains army had
primed the pump for these three great
campaigns of 1948 you couldn't blame
mile for feeling overly confident he
never expected his guys to be so
successful against the NRA armies it
wasn't a cakewalk but it gave Mao enough
assurances that a nice sustained
campaign and three key regions would be
all that was needed to change the tide
of history a lot of what had went right
with the war by now was attributed to
Mao's decisions this was especially true
with respect to the central plains
campaign this
Zess of yo boy Chung and done shell ping
meant a huge amount of glory heaped on
Mao that whole idea to sweep across her
nan Shaanxi Hebei and on way was all his
idea and to put this all in perspective
Leo and dung made Mao look very good in
this campaign if they had failed in any
way all fingers would have been pointed
at Mao perhaps this may be a reason why
for so many years Mao had stuck by dung
and refused to destroy him like he did
to so many others perhaps he never could
forget this marched for the doppio
mountains with Yolo Chung I wanted to
mention that by this time late 1947 and
into 1948 not only were NRA troops
getting slaughtered on the battlefield
there were also wholesale defections
going on to some of Jiang's generals -
were now starting to desert the sinking
ship with the tide of that all turned
against them some KMT generals committed
suicide rather than base their failure
or fall into PLA hands as the Laotian
campaign got underway in September 1948
Jiang hit at first put one of his most
trusted generals in charge
this was Chun Chun who had under his
command about half a million troops he
was planning to win back Manchuria from
Lin Biao forces and it was in October of
1948 that he was gonna strike but once
again CCP spies were able to get wind of
Chun Chun strategy to the extent that
Lin was able to devise a counter-attack
and knowing that Chun was gonna attack
in October Lin's plans called for a
surprise attack just beforehand he
smashed up the vital railroad links that
the KMT desperately needed for their
survival
On January 27th 1948 on an inspection
visit Chiang kai-shek made two shenyang
he wrote quote the reports of failure
come down just like snowflakes
from the manchurian sky now as 1948 was
unfolding all that was left of the KMT
stronghold that was once Manchuria were
those unfortunate troops left to defend
Shenyang and Chun Kuen and as April
turned to May their situation was
precarious like two islands in a storm
Shenyang and Changchun were totally
surrounded like PLA troops this was
getting set up to be one massive siege
surrounded like they were the only way
supplies and reinforcements could be
brought in was by air these air fields
had to stay open at all costs in
Shenyang sight of the Mukden incident
that had happened 17 years before there
were 200,000 nationalist troops Jiang's
advisors all urged him to get those
troops out of Shenyang now and move them
south of the great wall where they might
survive to fight more important battles
in the north and central parts of China
Chung refused he had already doubled
down and staked his whole existence on
this vast and resource rich part of
China to lose Manchuria was to lose this
whole war and the whole of China there
was gonna be no backing down from the
Generalissimo in April and May of 1948
China's ancient cities of law young and
Xian were falling into communist hands
and a year after it was lost
Punda Weiss eased back yen on in another
symbolic victory by now mile figured out
there was no need to act like the
underdog anymore the mobile warfare that
had worked so well for the Red Army and
the PLA all these years was pushed aside
in favor of a new strategy this one
called for more proactive conventional
warfare the reasons my adjusted is
thinking about this involved his
confidence that he had the Nira troops
on the run and also he had captured so
much equipment by now he really felt
like he had all the makings of a
powerful conventional fighting force he
had some serious firepower in his
possession as the summer of 1948 dawned
some serious divisions and doubts worst
to form over on the KMT side hope began
to fade and the better informed leaders
more and more began to question Jiang's
commitment to victory the junk didn't
just sit around and bemoaning his
situation he was constantly on the move
but signs were evident everywhere that
he was no longer the Chiang kai-shek who
showed so much promise in the late 20s
and 30s he was gonna be the one who's
gonna save China but in the summer of
1948 it was looking like he wasn't even
gonna be able to save himself in mid
1948 the KMT as a party and as a
military organization was dying now it's
still around and my young Joe is the
president and also the chairman of the
party and he's as much a KMT member as
john was it's still around today the KMT
is 119 years and still going strong
they've had their ups and downs and Sun
yat-sen founded the party in 1894 is the
ching chong wake or revive china society
but the summer of 1948
wasn't the best time for them man who
had been loyal to Jiang were abandoning
him some politically and some militarily
the corruption that had become more or
less an accepted part of the kmt's very
existence was by this time almost a
running joke except it wasn't so funny
nothing had been done to curb the worst
excesses of corruption in the party
there weren't even show trials or news
like it we might have heard recently
with China's ex railway minister Leo
Church in the people of China especially
in the cities were turning away from the
KMT and even though they faced the
double onslaught of Japan first in the
Communist second by 1948 the people
weren't willing to cut these guys any
slack there was a general deterioration
of society at almost every single level
in the People's Government led by the
KMT didn't do much to ameliorate the
situation when they had the ability and
now we're doing even less when the party
was falling apart it wasn't just the
social unrest corruption and deadly
repression that kept the people down
the disastrous financial policies did
way more harm than good and this was a
problem that whacked the rich as well as
the poor money was tighten the
government in taxes needed to be levy to
pay for the defense of the nation
because of the desperation of the times
this effort to raise revenue was done
enough ham-fisted and haphazard way
which gave political and military
leaders a license to rob and plunder the
local urban populace at will no one
could say it's only the poor who gets
screwed because of the failed policies
in maintaining a stable currency this
time it was the rich and relatively
well-off who suffered financial ruin and
hardship the financial chaos had been a
fact of life since 1946 in 1947 saw more
failed policies but it was in 1948 that
young planned to settle this whole
monetary crisis once and for all in
August of 1948 after collective input
from the top KMT political leaders about
how to handle the financial crisis and
the matter of corruption the centerpiece
of the plan was announced this was the
gold ruin to spare you the details
within 60 days the solution had turned
into the inevitable debacle it was
destined to become the gold wren was the
final nail in the coffin for the KMT as
far as any remaining public support and
Trust was concerned the New York Times
hailed this new gold un in this way
China launched a new economic era in
which it will once more be possible to
carry money and wallets instead of
suitcases long lines formed at China's
banks as they reopened order is
gradually being restored from the
confusion caused by the announcement of
the new reform it was the announcement
that the copy' which was supported only
by the cost of paper and ink was to be
replaced by the gold UN supported by all
the government's holdings enterprises
and foreign exchange an August 20 21
1948 there was a bank holiday you don't
see those every day
and the shanghai banking establishment
was given a raw deal and anyone who says
the bankers never lose check these guys
out all these banks had to turn in their
gold silver and foreign currency then to
empty the vaults there followed about 70
days of emergency measures in Shanghai
led by the son of John kai-shek himself
chiang chingkuo by the end of the
seventy day period thanks to chiang
chingkuo's extreme and harsh measures
sparing no one no matter how
well-connected the central bank of China
had seen an influx of 165 million ounces
of gold 900 million ounces of silver and
2.3 billion silver dollars and several
million USD this was a real reign of
terror targeted at the moneyed class in
Shanghai and that included the big
financial institutions most of all the
one leading this crusade was as I just
said Jim Cheng hua his interesting life
is on the list of future topics almost
no one was immune HH combs nephew got
caught up in the dragnet but being a
cousin to Chiang ching-kuo and the son
of China's richest man he was able to
weasel out of the whole deal they did
try and indict him later
hoarding goods or something like that
but by then he had skipped town and was
already planting some roots in the USA
well these terror tactics worked fine
but just long enough for the KMT to
declare victory and then as I mentioned
everything quickly fell apart and by
November 7th Chang ching-kuo had to
resign and disgrace the much heralded
gold year and bombed within a couple
months if there was any hope of the KMT
getting these guys votes in the next
election they were now gone for sure
these banks and institutions had handed
over the real deal real wealth real
assets and they took these gold urand
certificates and currency and returned
and now they had next to nothing
so this rather spectacular example sort
of illustrates the kind of mistakes and
mismanagement that became the
nationalist calling card after they
assumed power in 1945 they just couldn't
get their act together and whatever
great ideas they had like this one the
1948 gold UN always seemed to go south
and whoever wasn't an insider ended up
getting screwed the most basic of basic
commodities of the day
rice flour pork eggs oil cotton yarn and
cloth had increased in price anywhere
from 10 to 25 times by November 1948
short-term interest rates had hit 500
percent per month it wasn't only on the
battlefields of Manchuria Shaanxi Hebei
finanash Shandong that Jung had the
concern himself he had to fight this war
managed an economy that was on life
support and run a government poured
young he was surrounded by incompetence
he had big ideas and big dreams but the
problems Chang faced were way too big
for what he was capable of managing the
problems were too big for him and too
big for the KMT so September 1948 the
first of the three great campaigns the
Liao shun as I said the PLA grabbed
jinjo first this cuts off any chance of
escape the carnage suffered by the
nationalist troops is beyond description
then the PLA turns their sights on
Changchun Chang Chun is taken also with
massive bloodletting the last to fall
was Shenyang and fall it did in early
November I suppose even before the Liao
Shan campaign began Manchuria was lost
to the Nationalists but now after the
last of Chang strongholds if you want to
call them that were taken and 400,000
KMT troops killed now it was really over
Jang is gonna go down real fast from
this point on plenty of people told him
don't waste those 400,000 troops get
them out of that hellhole while you
still can
when he had the chance to move them
south
he refused to do so it was his call and
now they were gone and he'd have to face
the PLA who were now in complete control
of parts of the north and all of
manchuria the PLA could now enjoy the
luxury of focusing their formidable army
on a very much smaller more degraded and
way more vulnerable nationalist army and
another massive disaster had hit yong at
the end of 1948 in november one of the
worst things that could happen happened
remember the Chicago Tribune famous
photo Dewey defeats Truman well that had
just happened
Thomas Dewey was a big-time supporter of
John and during the hotly contested 1948
presidential election against Truman he
had been promising to throw the full
support of the u.s. behind gem and this
was gonna be a close election and do he
was using his China platform to hammer
Truman Zhang kai-shek by this time in
late 1948 had already earned his moniker
from our 33rd president he was cashed my
check now and Truman didn't want to give
him any more money
he thought given money to join at this
point was like throwing it down the
toilet
but because Dewey was giving him so much
trouble during the election Truman
throughout the election year of 1948 he
had to keep giving to young money and
aid huh
not anymore Truman got reelected and it
was probably at that point that Chiang
kai-shek knew his goose was cooked the
way things were looking at the dawn of
the hi-hi campaign the only thing that
was gonna possibly saved Jung and his
whole Republic of China was Uncle Sam
riding in on a white stallion and with
the election of harry s truman any
chances of that happening went right out
the window Truman had once written to a
friend quote only an American army of
two million men could have saved the
Generalissimo and that would have been
World War 3 the weihai campaign is going
to be the biggest battle of the Civil
War at one time during this epic battle
more than 1.8 mm
soldiers were involved in a battlefield
of no more than 200 kilometers and for
the Hawaii high campaign almost 2
million peasants had been conscripted by
the communists to handle the kinds of
non-combat roles that I mentioned before
and these weren't volunteers for these
people in the countryside visited by the
communist cadres it was often a case of
sign up to help the cause or else the
campaign's main objective was to advance
south towards the Yangtze River right
through the central plains of China Mao
Zedong was really betting big on the
white high campaign he had already
delivered a crushing blow in the Liao
Shan campaign if the Weihai campaign
could bring success to Mao in the China
heartland he knew it would be all over
for Jung much quicker than anyone could
have anticipated the campaign got its
name from the area where it was
principally fought between the Wye River
and the long high railway line that ran
through jang-soo onwe and Hunan all the
way out to Gansu and the Wye River of
course one of the great tributaries of
the yang sir located between the Yangtze
and the yellow river running through
Jiangsu Anhui and Hunan
bad luck and wrong decisions made by
Jiang again against the judgement of his
field commanders pretty much sealed the
fate of the Nationalists and the white
high campaign many of the legends of the
revolution were charging at the
Nationalists simultaneously suyu was the
main strategist for the campaign done
shopping and the Oppo Chong were heavily
involved as was su use partner in
Shandong Chen Yi tan John Lane also led
forces against a very well equipped but
ill-prepared KMT army they were facing
off against Chang's men do you mean
Huang way go cheer and others the news
from the campaign was such that Mao
issued the following statement on
November 14th 1948 the military
situation in China has reached a new
turning points and the
balance of forces between the two sides
in the war has undergone fundamental
change the PLA long superior in quality
has become superior in numbers as well
this is a sign that the victory of the
Chinese Revolution and the realization
of peace in China are at hand do you
mean ended up concentrating his forces
in the KMT military stronghold of Xu
Zhuo north of the anza this is where du
moved his army after than the outshine
campaign had pushed him out of Manchuria
between the spies and the KMT military
leadership the constant squabbling
between their generals in their
unwillingness to cooperate at key times
contributed to their defeat as much as
any brilliant maneuvers that sue you
could come up with the PLA forces were
moving in so fast that general du called
for a hasty retreat out of Xu Zhuo so
that they could link up with other KMT
forces in the south near the capital in
Nanjing that was the main idea get south
of the Yangtze regroup and then go at it
again but use the Chang Chang as the
natural barrier to keep the two sides
apart general do you means commander was
general Huang way and yet another in a
long line of miscalculations and under
estimates the KMT military believed they
had plenty of time to regroup and get
organized in Sciuto their strategist
figured it was gonna take some time for
the PLA to get at them it took time all
right but not nearly as much as they
expected in this battle with forces led
by yo bong and dung Xiao ping he was
decisively defeated general Huang was
captured of his 120,000 troops perished
once the PLA started their main attack
on January 6th do you mean knew that his
plan of trying to escape with his
remaining troops to get south of the
Yangtze was impossible he was going down
and this in effect meant that all of
China north of the jung-soo would fall
into the hands of the Communists this
was the Nationalists last chance let me
just read a passage from oh darn West
odds book
decisive encounters quotes for do you
mean and his soldiers the situation was
getting hopeless a failed breakout
attempt on December 16th loss to do
almost 1/4 of his troops on December
20th it started to rain and snow and the
temperature dropped more than 200,000
men were crowded together in a small
area with insufficient supplies all
attempts at relieving them came to
nothing the air drops of food and
ammunition increasingly failed as the
defenders were herded into tiny pockets
in the fields around shuang du ch by
New Year's Eve the frozen and hungry
soldiers were digging up coffins to burn
and slaughtering their horses for food
do you mean declined Jiang's offer to
rescue him and his staff but did little
to coordinate resistance to the all-out
attack that the PLA finally began on
January 6 1949 On January 10th in the
afternoon
du walked out of his US army officers
tent and bowed to his communist captors
one of his officers after being taken
prisoner admitted that his last meal
before capture had been his American
sheepskin gloves a hundred thousand
troops were captured Jung had lost
200,000 soldiers in the fighting trained
soldiers not prisoners and conscripts so
much of his precious and beautiful
American equipment and heavy artillery
was lost and now the property of the PLA
so the Hawaii high campaign was pretty
much over and once again Mao and the top
military brass were amazed at the speed
with which the nationalist forces fell
to their advances the PLA was itself
exhausted from the fight and quite
overextended in some places I mentioned
how the nationalist troops were often
wiped out in six figures
the Communists did not suffer these
kinds of losses but they did suffer a
lot of PLA soldiers made the ultimate
sacrifice - and as the white high
campaign came to a close there was a
fear that
with Chang becoming the lost cause that
he was the worry was that the Americans
might intervene Truman had no intention
of doing such a thing but Mao didn't
know that from those John service
episodes you know how irrational and
easily influenced China policy was in
the mid to late 1940s
so as Jeon reached this darkest of hours
in December 1948 January 1949 Mao
started to stress out about a sudden
intervention by American forces Truman
after he got wind of what happened after
the white high campaign turned his back
on Jung and let nature take its course
to his own State Department Truman said
Jang was unworthy of American aid and he
called him a busted flush which poker
players will know as a flush didn't pan
out as expected now the tables were sort
of turned on Chairman Mao they were
turned in that all these vast parts of
China north of the young so that used to
belong to the Nationalists now belong to
the Communists one day all the problems
of that region were the nationalist
headache now they were the Communist
headache and I mentioned in the past two
episodes how hyung's failure to deal
with the problems of the people there
contributed to his unpopularity the
well-being of the people and all the
problems associated with administering a
region now fell in the Communist Party
after three years and a string of
failures
ji-yong had blown his chance now the
problems in 1948 were even worse than
they were in 1945 and the people were
calling on their government now more
than ever to help them this was now the
PLA headache they were now stuck wearing
the same painful shoes as the
Nationalists did in 1945 when they took
over from Japan Mao was determined not
to blow it like Jung did as far as the
takeover of power and authority and
northern China went they already had
that one model city in heart Bing
remember that was the first city the
Communists were able to capture and hold
and they used HAARP beam as a model as
far as how to take the place over so
that all they had to do now was look to
this heart
an example and try and apply it to
wherever they moved in and took over and
let me also say when these teams moved
in and began to take over it wasn't
always like the old propaganda movies or
everyone was welcoming the PLA with open
arms the whole work of the CCP had very
mixed reviews up till now all over China
so it's not like everyone especially in
the cities was so glad to see them there
was quite a lot of concern about you
know what now
so Maui had to do two things at once he
had to go in and deliver the final punch
to finish off the Nationalists and
concurrently stabilized the cities and
restore order and hopefully the economy
Mao Zedong didn't want to end up like
any number of conquering heroes from
Chinese history who were great at waging
war but a failure at waging peace so
with all the smashing success of the
white high campaign China from the
DeAnza north was almost all in communist
hands almost but not quite two cities
remained crumbling bastions of
nationalist control and Mao still
working out of his compound and sheep I
Pau in Hebei lastly turned his sights on
these two ancient and important cities
one was Tianjin and the other was
Beijing this pingjin campaign would be
the final campaign of 1948 and would
finish off on January 31st 1949 it ran
concurrently with the weihai campaign
the pingjin campaign ping stood for bei
ping that's what Beijing was called
during the Republic of China period on
the mainland and gin stood for Tianjin
all Maui had to do now was wrest control
of these two from the feeble grip of the
Nationalists and the entire north of
China was his not the northwest that
would follow at a time of Mao's choosing
but north of the Yangtze huapi North
China the Mandarin speaking part only
Beijing and Tianjin remained these two
cities were going to fall sooner or
later the National
were completely surrounded as symbolic
victories to Mao taking beijing and
tianjin was extremely important there
really was no rush or strategic need to
waste time on these two at the moment
but Mao knew the importance of symbolism
he front bernhard this one guarding
beijing was Jen's general foots all Yi
with three hundred and fifty thousand
soldiers under his command Mao sent
lianbao and year wrong Jun to deal with
them also fighting in this battle of the
PLA side was gonna be ow he was
mentioned in episode CHP 75 covering the
life of Chairman Xi Jinping the top guy
in China today chairman she got a big
boost to his career in the early days
thanks to gun Bo gum the future Defense
Minister was a close ally to Shi Tong
Shin father to Xi Jinping first Jung
choco was taken then halfway to Beijing
the town of Shing fell and fell in a
bloody battle Beijing was a day away
food soya he began to seek desperate
measures to deal with his predicament
his office was riddled with spies and he
was surrounded by enemies PLA troops
were closing in on Beijing just as
Tianjin was about to fall
four days after do you Ming was taken
prisoner in Xu Zhuo on January 14 1949
Lin Bo began his attack on Tianjin
everyone knew this moment was coming and
the inhabitants braced for the onslaught
those who could evacuate the city had
already gone this bloody battle was
finished by 4:00 in the afternoon the
next day is the NRA commander Chun Chun
chi s surrendered to Lin it was the PLA
s third smashing success on the
battlefield in only four months time
with the fall of Tianjin and after
hearing the news that junk Ishak had
resigned on January 21st and that vice
president li zongren had replaced young
as president who Joey surrendered
Beijing without a fight
the city was liberated and
was that his 260,000 remaining troops as
per the truce boots oi ye worked out
we're allowed to walk out of the city
they left and the PLA walked in on
January 31st 1949 Beijing was liberated
and the takeover by the CCP began except
the place was still called bei ping but
it'll get changed back to Beijing and
once again it will become the capital of
China the People's Republic of China but
we're not there yet today I only hope to
get as far as the three major campaigns
of 1948 in 1947 it was the Communists
three great offenses summer autumn and
winter then in 1948 it was the Liao Shan
fly high and ping jean campaigns and so
you can see for this Chinese Civil War
the way it played out was Manchuria was
taken then the north of China and
Shandong then the central plains and
everything north of the answer there
conquering in a southerly direction and
it's with the continuing of the fighting
in the south that we're gonna convene
again next time it's all over for John
kai-shek in the north of China that much
is certain and he still got a little bit
of fight left in him south of the unsub
and in this and in this John nan part of
China the Communists didn't have the
kind of mass market appeal that they did
in the north south of the Yangtze had
always been John kai-shek territory
it sure was now this was all he had left
but his armies had been so devastated
and degraded fighting the PLA for two
years in the north whether or not Jian
regretted not listening to some of his
generals I can't say but if they wanted
to tell the Generalissimo I told you so
they sure had license to say that the
hundreds of thousands of troops he
committed to fighting these lost causes
in Manchuria might have made a big
difference now in his defense of his
hold on the south of China politically
the KMT was in shambles Lee Chong ran is
the new guy but he's completely
surrounded by Chiang kai-shek men and is
the leader of the Republic and named all
the KMT was reduced to begging Stalin to
intervene and try and broker a deal the
Stalin took stock of a situation and saw
the obvious that ChiHong was going down
hard and he saw what China might become
under a mile regime and for sure Stalin
said a powerful United and patriotic
China is the last thing he wants on his
long border with them so he started
trying to slow Mouse advances down by
1949 Mao was going in for the kill and
Stalin was trying to push him in the
direction of a KMT alliance of some sort
by now after so many times being
rebuffed by Stalin and not respected Mao
just said the hell was Stalin I'm gonna
keep going
and many years later when the
sino-soviet split happened Mao always
pointed to this moment as proof that
Stalin never had the best interests of
the CCP at heart the Nationalist
government ship was sinking the rats
were deserting it everyone was
suspicious of everyone in Chiang wasn't
handling things too well he took off for
a place I'm gonna be going to next week
good old Ning ba in judge young province
he went down to his hometown in Fung Wah
Toshiko specifically and there he
brooded about what had gone so wrong and
what to do about his future Jiang had
concluded quote the old system had
collapsed before the new one could be
established before retiring to shikoh to
reflect on his situation he visited the
tomb of Sun yat-sen and Nanjing he bowed
before Sun and I could only imagine what
was going through his head when he had
his silent exchange with the father of
the country and the man who he succeeded
Shirley son wouldn't have approved of
Jung's handling of not only the war but
the party as well it was right about now
in 1948 early 1949 that Jung's experts
were clearing out all the most choice of
choicest Imperial treasures and having
everything packed up and shipped to
Taiwan
the word on the nationalists street was
that they were gonna have to take a page
out of Chingiz book and make taiwan
the place to go if things got too hot
and they ended up losing the mainland by
the time the treasures and Ching dynasty
archives were being shipped across the
Taiwan Strait
ji-yong already had 300,000 troops there
the wait young and his men saw it
Taiwan Bing and Islands could be
defended quite easily especially since
at this time in early 1949 naval and air
superiority still rested with the
Nationalists the Communists hadn't
gotten around yet infiltrating the
island and organizing the populace so if
the Nationalists decided that Taiwan was
gonna be the place to go and regroup
they wouldn't have to deal with any
existing underground communist movement
so it isn't over yet there's still more
than a year before the Fayette lady
sings but I have confidence that we'll
reach that point the next episode
there's still 1949 to do yet we all know
how the story is going to end
ten one forty nine that's for next time
the revolution doesn't end on October
1st the story will continue into 1950 so
please don't give up and walk away just
yet
more to come on this subject so my good
looking listeners all over this wild
world this is Laszlo Montgomery the
China history podcast com signing off
from 971 111 California join me next
time won't you for another exciting
episode of a China history podcast